---
title: Extend
anchor: extend
sections:
---

Rivets.js is easily extended by adding your own custom *binders* and *formatters*. Rivets.js comes bundled with a few commonly used bindings, but users are encouraged to add their own that are specific to the needs of their application.

#### Binders

*Binders* are used to define different types of bindings -- they contain instructions for a specific type of binding and can be defined as a single function for simple one-way bindings or as an object literal for more intricate bindings.

Let's say we wanted a simple binder that sets the element's color. Since this would be a one-way binding, we can take the standard single function approach. This function is reffered to as the *binding routine*, and is what runs when an observed attribute changes -- it's sole concern is to describe what happens to the element with the new attribute value.

{% highlight javascript %}
rivets.binders.color = function(el, value) {
  el.style.color = value
}
{% endhighlight %}

With that binder defined, you can now utilize it in your views with the `data-color` binding.

{% highlight html %}
<span data-color="model.color">COLOR</span>
{% endhighlight %}

Available bindings out-of-the-box:

- data-text
- data-html
- data-value
- data-show
- data-hide
- data-enabled
- data-disabled
- data-checked
- data-unchecked
- data-**\[attribute\]**
- data-class-**\[class\]**
- data-on-**\[event\]**
- data-each-**\[item\]**

#### Formatters

*Formatters* are simple one-way functions that mutate the incoming value of a binding. You can use them to format dates, numbers, currencies, etc. and because they work in a similar fashion to the Unix pipeline, the output of each feeds directly as input to the next one, so you can stack as many of them together as you like.

{% highlight javascript %}
rivets.formatters.date = function(value){
  return moment(value).format('MMM DD, YYYY')
}
{% endhighlight %}

Pipe bindings to formatters by using `|` as a delimiter.

{% highlight html %}
<span data-text="event.startDate | date"></span>
{% endhighlight %}

Want to pass arguments to your formatter? Not a problem.

{% highlight html %}
<span data-text="billing.cardNumber | maskMiddle 4 4 ********"></span>
{% endhighlight %}

(Note that all arguments are passed in a Strings, so you will need to perform any conversion to primitives if necessary.)

{% highlight javascript %}
rivets.formatters.maskMiddle = function(value, beginLength, endLength, maskString) {
  if (beginLength == null) {
    beginLength = 4
  }
  if (endLength == null) {
    endLength = 4
  }
  if (maskString == null) {
    maskString = ' ... '
  }
  formatted = value.substring(0, parseInt(beginLength))
  formatted += maskString
  formatted += value.substring(value.length - parseInt(endLength))

  return formatted
}
{% endhighlight %}

